### What is SQL Injection?
The point wherein a web application using SQL can turn into SQL Injection is when user-provided data gets included in the SQL query.

### What does it look like?
Take the following scenario where you've come across an online blog, and each blog entry has a unique ID number. The blog entries may be either set to public or private, depending on whether they're ready for public release. The URL for each blog entry may look something like this:

```
https://website.thm/blog?id=1
```

From the URL above, you can see that the blog entry selected comes from the id parameter in the query string. The web application needs to retrieve the article from the database and may use an SQL statement that looks something like the following:

```
SELECT * from blog where id=1 and private=0 LIMIT 1;
```

From what you've learned in the previous task, you should be able to work out that the SQL statement above is looking in the blog table for an article with the id number of 1 and the private column set to 0, which means it's able to be viewed by the public and limits the results to only one match.

As was mentioned at the start of this task, SQL Injection is introduced when user input is introduced into the database query. In this instance, the id parameter from the query string is used directly in the SQL query.

Let's pretend article ID 2 is still locked as private, so it cannot be viewed on the website. We could now instead call the URL:

```
https://website.thm/blog?id=2;--
```

Which would then, in turn, produce the SQL statement:

```
SELECT * from blog where id=2;-- and private=0 LIMIT 1;
```

The semicolon in the URL signifies the end of the SQL statement, and the two dashes cause everything afterwards to be treated as a comment. By doing this, you're just, in fact, running the query:

```
SELECT * from blog where id=2;--
```

Which will return the article with an ID of 2 whether it is set to public or not.

This was just one example of an SQL Injection vulnerability of a type called ```In-Band SQL Injection```; there are three types in total: ***In-Band, Blind and Out-of-Band***, which we'll discuss over the following tasks.


<br>

******
if this content liked you, follow me [Here](https://github.com/4bo4yman) ;) :tada:
*****
