# 1. NoSQL operator injection

NoSQL databases often use query operators, which provide ways to specify conditions that data must meet to be included in the query result. Examples of MongoDB query operators include:

#### ```$where``` - Matches documents that satisfy a JavaScript expression.

#### ```$ne``` - Matches all values that are not equal to a specified value.

#### ```$in``` - Matches all of the values specified in an array.

#### ```$regex``` - Selects documents where values match a specified regular expression.

You may be able to inject query operators to manipulate NoSQL queries. To do this, systematically submit different operators into a range of user inputs, then review the responses for error messages or other changes.

[MongoDB Operator Reference](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/query/)

-----------

# 2. Submitting query operators

In JSON messages, you can insert query operators as nested objects. For example, ```{"username":"wiener"}``` becomes ```{"username":{"$ne":"invalid"}}```.

For URL-based inputs, you can insert query operators via URL parameters. For example, ```username=wiener``` becomes ```username[$ne]=invalid```. If this doesn't work, you can try the following:

  1. Convert the request method from ```GET``` to ```POST```.
  2. Change the ```Content-Type``` header to ```application/json```.
  3. Add JSON to the message body.
  4. Inject query operators in the JSON.


> [!NOTE]
> You can use the Content Type Converter extension to automatically convert the request method and change a URL-encoded POST request to JSON.


-------------

# 3. Detecting operator injection in MongoDB

Consider a vulnerable application that accepts a username and password in the body of a ```POST``` request:

```{"username":"wiener","password":"peter"}```

Test each input with a range of operators. For example, to test whether the username input processes the query operator, you could try the following injection:

```{"username":{"$ne":"invalid"},"password":{"peter"}}```

If the ```$ne``` operator is applied, this queries all users where the username is not equal to ```invalid```.

If both the username and password inputs process the operator, it may be possible to bypass authentication using the following payload:

```
{"username":{"$ne":"invalid"},"password":{"$ne":"invalid"}}
```

This query returns all login credentials where both the username and password are not equal to invalid. As a result, you're logged into the application as the first user in the collection.

### To target an account, you can construct a payload that includes a known username, or a username that you've guessed. For example:

```
{"username":{"$in":["admin","administrator","superadmin"]},"password":{"$ne":""}} 
```














