# Timing based injection

Sometimes triggering a database error doesn't cause a difference in the application's response. In this situation, you may still be able to detect and exploit the vulnerability by using JavaScript injection to trigger a conditional time delay.

To conduct timing-based NoSQL injection:

    Load the page several times to determine a baseline loading time.
    Insert a timing based payload into the input. A timing based payload causes an intentional delay in the response when executed. For example, ```{"$where": "sleep(5000)"}``` causes an intentional delay of 5000 ms on successful injection.
    Identify whether the response loads more slowly. This indicates a successful injection.

The following timing based payloads will trigger a time delay if the password beings with the letter ```a```:

```
admin'+function(x){var waitTill = new Date(new Date().getTime() + 5000);while((x.password[0]==="a") && waitTill > new Date()){};}(this)+'
```

```
admin'+function(x){if(x.password[0]==="a"){sleep(5000)};}(this)+' 
```
--------

# Preventing NoSQL injection

The appropriate way to prevent NoSQL injection attacks depends on the specific NoSQL technology in use. As such, we recommend reading the security documentation for your NoSQL database of choice. That said, the following broad guidelines will also help:

- Sanitize and validate user input, using an allowlist of accepted characters.
- Insert user input using parameterized queries instead of concatenating user input directly into the query.
- To prevent operator injection, apply an allowlist of accepted keys.
