<h1>$${\color{blue}eXtensible}\space {\color{blue}Markup}\space {\color{blue}Language}\space {\color{blue}(XML)}$$</h1>





Before we move on to learn about XXE exploitation we'll have to understand XML properly.

## What is XML?

XML (eXtensible Markup Language) is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format that is both human-readable and machine-readable. It is a markup language used for storing and transporting data. 

## Why we use XML?

1. XML is platform-independent and programming language independent, thus it can be used on any system and supports the technology change when that happens.

2. The data stored and transported using XML can be changed at any point in time without affecting the data presentation.

3. XML allows validation using DTD and Schema. This validation ensures that the XML document is free from any syntax error.

4. XML simplifies data sharing between various systems because of its platform-independent nature. XML data doesn’t require any conversion when transferred between different systems.

## Syntax

Every XML document mostly starts with what is known as XML Prolog.

```<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>```


Above the line is called XML prolog and it specifies the XML version and the encoding used in the XML document. This line is not compulsory to use but it is considered a `good practice` to put that line in all your XML documents.

Every XML document must contain a `ROOT` element. For example:

```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mail>
   <to>falcon</to>
   <from>feast</from>
   <subject>About XXE</subject>
   <text>Teach about XXE</text>
</mail>
```

In the above example the ```<mail>``` is the ROOT element of that document and ```<to>```, ```<from>```, ```<subject>```, ```<text>``` are the children elements. If the XML document doesn't have any root element then it would be considered ```wrong``` or ```invalid``` XML doc.

Another thing to remember is that XML is a case sensitive language. If a tag starts like ```<to>``` then it has to end by ```</to>``` and not by something like ```</To>```(notice the capitalization of ```T```)

Like HTML we can use attributes in XML too. The syntax for having attributes is also very similar to HTML. For example:
```<text category = "message">You need to learn about XXE</text>```

In the above example ```category``` is the attribute name and ```message``` is the attribute value.




<br>

******
if this content liked you, follow me [Here](https://github.com/4bo4yman) ;) :tada:
*****
